My first contact
with the Witnesses was in my 20’s.
As my knowledge increased,
I made drastic changes.
I quit smoking
and stopped swearing and using drugs.
I also changed my violent behavior.
I completely gave up martial arts,
and then I was baptized
as one of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
It was an amazing day that I will never forget.
Shortly after my baptism,
I became quite involved
in my work at the theater.
The environment there
was very immoral, you know.
Even after several loving warnings
from brothers in the congregation
advising me to look for another job,
I chose not to follow their advice.
I’d worked there for a long time,
so I thought, ‘I can handle it.’
But I was wrong.
My conscience became dull,
and I committed a serious sin against Jehovah.
When I left the truth,
several offers came my way.
I became a manager at a nightclub
that was open until six in the morning.
It was a lot of parties,
and it was a lot of drugs.
I also resumed martial arts.
I came in contact with serious criminals
and gradually became friends
with the most influential person
in the criminal underworld in Oslo.
Eventually,
I was imprisoned for my violent behavior.
A Christian movement
visited the prison where I was,
and all of the inmates were invited
to an event where there would be cake served.
That sounded very interesting.
I was tempted by a cake.
They also played music.
But after a while,
they started speaking in tongues,
and I felt very uncomfortable.
I didn’t want to be involved in that,
but I couldn’t get up.
Even though I was big and strong back then,
I physically couldn’t stand up from my chair.
I’ve experienced a lot in my life,
but at that moment,
I was genuinely scared.
So I cried out to Jehovah,
and immediately I was released,
and I was able to get up and leave.
This big man was now in a fetal position, crying.
And then I called my wife
and asked her to bring me a Bible
and some literature.
I had to start studying again
and draw close to Jehovah.
The greatest challenge was prayer
—to start communicating with Jehovah again
after being so far away from him,
doing all these bad things.
You know, it was a long way to go.
One scripture I especially remember
is Isaiah 1:18, where He says:
“Come, now,
and let us set matters straight between us.”
That touched me deeply.
He also says that if ‘your sins are red like scarlet,’
Jehovah will make them “white as snow.”
It felt like he separated the darkness
and stretched out his hand
and pulled me out,
back into the light again.
Six months after I was reinstated,
my wife decided to dedicate her life
to Jehovah and was baptized.
She has been a huge support during my return.
I was very nervous at first,
but when I entered the Kingdom Hall,
that feeling just disappeared.
God’s spirit is here.
The way the brothers and sisters
acted toward each other
was such a contrast to my former lifestyle.
We feel deeply blessed by Jehovah.
Of course, you make mistakes once in a while,
but now I feel confident that Jehovah is merciful.